# Subtropical-Stream-Estuary-Connectivity

#### Summary:
MDN (marine derived nutrient) subsidies to streams and rivers are well known in temperate systems with salmon, herring, and shad migrations, but the potential for diadromy to supply MDN to rivers in the sub-tropics remains uncharacterized.  Low-elevation coastal streams in South-Central Texas harbor a surprising number of marine taxa including Ohio shrimp (Macrobrachium ohione), American eel (Anguilla rostrata), Gizzard shad (Dorosoma cepedianum), Striped mullet (Mugil cephalus), Gulf menhaden (Brevooria patronus), and Hogchoker (Trinectes maculatus). Their migrations are jeopardized by man-made barrier construction, ground-water depletion, and aridification. In this study we collected basal resources, fish, and invertebrates from 9 streams and 5 coastal bays that span a natural precipitation gradient, as well as above and below a salt-dam. Samples were analyzed for stable isotopes of 13C, 15N, and 34S to 1) quantify the influence of MDN in subtropical, coastal stream communities, 2) assess whether salt-dams prohibit upstream transport of MDN, and 3) determine whether aridity reduces upstream nutrient transport via reduced longitudinal connectivity in the river corridor. We detected MDN in sub-humid streams (>70 cm rainfall /yr) but not semi-arid streams and downstream of the salt dam. These results extend our knowledge of MDN subsidies in freshwater systems from temperate to subtropical systems. Our findings also raise conservation concerns for barrier-construction and aridification because they prevent upstream-connectivity.


